# FashionMNIST Image Classifier
## Introduction
This program is an image classifier used to classify a 28x28 pixel grayscale image of clothing based on the Fashion MNIST dataset which can be found on Kaggle. The program was written using Python and the Pytorch library to take advantage of its deep learning capabilities, and more specifically, its ability to create convoluted neural networks from which accurate predictions can be learned and made by inputting images and running them through multiple convolution layers in higher dimensions.

## How it works
From a dataset of 50,000 images, the program randomly partitions the training dataset into a new training dataset and a validation dataset, with the new training dataset containing 80% of the training samples, and the validation dataset containing the remaining 20% of samples. This was done in order to prevent overfitting the classifier to the training dataset as well as allowing the user to simulate real-world performance through the classifier accuracy after classifying the validation examples. After splitting the training dataset, the program creates and trains a convoluted neural network which feeds the training data in batches of 32 images into two hidden layers, a stochastic gradient descent optimizer, and a learning rate of 0.001. The program then runs the convoluted neural network on a testing dataset and will print the predictions of the testing data into a .txt file.

## How to run the program
Included in the repository is the main program named prediction.py as well as a compressed file named dataset.zip which contains both the training and testing dataset. To run the program, first unzip the compressed data files to retrieve the datasets. Next, simply run prediction.py and it will begin training the neural network on the training dataset and will create a .txt file which will include the predictions of the testing dataset. This neural network can then be used to predict images of clothing in the real-world.
